---
layout: post
title: Pairing on Everyday Tasks
---

Have you ever done yard work, cleaned your house or move some furniture
by yourself and then all of a sudden someone joins in to help you? Don't
you just love that feeling? Now you know it won't take as long, you
get an extra boost of energy and the sum of your work will be greater
than the individual parts.

As I've worked in Product and UX, I've found that pairing with another
designer works on my productivity and thought process the same way it
works when I'm developing software. I'm able to simply accomplish more
work with another person than if we had both gone off for a couple days
and had a meeting afterwards.

Now in some cases it won't make sense, such as implementing a sketch in
Photoshop won't be as productive when both designers have similar skill
sets but it's definitely possible to pick up a few tricks from each
other if you haven't already established equilibrium. The same can be
said for a couple developers wasting away on CSS tweaks for IE. It's not
going to be much more productive with two developers getting frustrated
at IE than with one since the process for dealing with it can be mostly
trial and error.

It would still be interesting to try pairing with traditional
professions. For electricians and plumbers, the process of a journeyman
but also having multiple professionals working on the same project is
normal. It's normal to see multiple technicians working on the same
problem. But what about accounting? Or marketing?

Maybe I'll find out one day. I'll probably need to create a company
first though.

Happy pairing!

